# The notion of powerful effects

- From late 19th century 1940s: people thought that mass communication had huge impact on us.

  





## Hypodermic needle theory (Magic bullet theory)

Develped during the 1920-30s after observations of WW1 propraganda, and Hollywood movies.

[This theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypodermic_needle_model) suggests that, media, just as medicine, can be *passively* injected to audience, expecting them to response uniformly. 

From Wikipedia:

> The "Magic Bullet" theory graphically assumes that the media's message is a bullet fired from the "media gun" into the viewer's "head". Similarly, the "Hypodermic Needle Model" uses the same idea of the 
> "shooting" paradigm. It suggests that the media injects its messages 
> straight into the passive audience

- S-R model: if there is stimuli there is a response, people are passive recipients of media. 
- "Mass" - unorganized isolated, and anonymous group of people. 
  - at that time they thought people are not connected, easily manipulated, uneducated. 



## Examples

### WW2 propaganda

Repetitive, easy to understand, and uses emotional appeal rather than logical

Most nobably [Nazi propaganda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Propaganda_in_Nazi_Germany), for example. the Goebbels experiment in particular.

if someone can dominate people's ideas, he will be secure in his power, will not need soldiers patrolling the streets.  

- build mainly to manipulate people to adopt certain ideas and behaviors. 
- Presents a view as absoulte truth
- Manipulate people to convince them that the idea or action they adopted was one they chose through their own personal volition.
- Presuastion vs. Propraganda:  Presuation: profits both the sender and reciver, Propraganda: benifits the sender. Generally, look at the purpose of the sender.



### Payne fund studies

### Invasion from mars(1939)

### Seoul national university April's fool, 2002



Example: How an event could be effective ? 

- Report format
- Credibility of newspaper media
- Relevancy to actual issues 