# Social learning theory

A function that occurs by observing, retaining, and reproduction and is influenced by the outcome (reward/punishment). 

People learn in two ways:

- **Inactive learning**: direct experience: sometimes its dangerous and takes a lot of time. 
  
- **Vicarious learning**: Indirect experience; knowledge is expended from previous cases like smoking it is much safer.
  
  Social learning theory is involved with vicarious learning: how people learn with other's experience.

  From [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_learning_theory): 

  > Social learning theory is a theory of learning process and social behavior which proposes that new behaviors can be acquired by observing and imitating others. [...] When a particular behavior is rewarded regularly, it will most likely persist; conversely, if a particular behavior is constantly punished, it will most likely desist.

  The process of vicarious learning:
  
  - Modeling
    - **Attention**: observing a behavior (model) accurately. 
    - **Retention**: take a mental picture of it, remember aspects of the behavior. 
    - **Motor reproduction**: practice, to master certain skill. (talking mental and verbal representations into overt behavior- practice observed behavior), self-correctness feedback by others is received during this stage to improve the performance. 
    - **Motivation**: incentives makes people pay more attention, retain more information. 

Example driving a car

## "Bobo doll" experience

Bandura, Ross (1961) conducted an experience in which children were watching an adult beating a Bobo doll.
Children imitated (adopted)  the violent behavior. 
The study suggests that children can learn aggressive behavior

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NjTxQy_U3ac" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
at the time people thoughts watching crimes on TV would reduce it, but in fact the results contradicted the studies. 

## The importance of motivation 

motivation - own intention to perform a behavior 

Incentives to motivate:

- positive outcome experienced
- observation of the other's successful behavior 
- affirmation of personal standards of behavior 

### Reward and punishment

According to Bandura:

The importance of rewards and punishment

- video 1: after the aggressive behavior, individuals in the video received rewards
- video 2: after the aggressive behavior, individuals in the videos got punished 

children who watched the video had greater imitation in the reward condition.


## Effects of modeling 

- **Inhibitory effects**: new information or observation of new behavior acts to **restrain** previously learned behavior  (e.g: quite smoking).
- **Disinhibitory effects** : newly added information or behavior acts to **remove** internal restraints.

## Learning from Media

- The role of media is social learning 
- Social construction of reality: effects of viewing violence on behavior 
- Learning good things - various positive learning effects evident from viewing educational TV.

