# Agenda-Setting Theory

Agenda-setting theory suggests that media determines which issues are important by highliting, or giving attention more than other issues. It assumes that people regard the most frequent and highlited issues as the most important.

## Assumptions

1. **Media outlets are gatekeepers**; they determine what stories/issues go and what aren't suppose to. For example: covering music festival while ignoring newly introduced taxes. 
2. Media outlets **determine the importance of a story/issue**; people regard the most frequent stories as important, it tells them what they should think about instead of what they think.

## Types

1. **Public agenda**: Public determines important issues.
2. **Media agenda**: Media determines importnat issues.

---



## Lecure Notes

* The press may not be successful much of the time in telling people what to think, but it is stunningly successful in **telling its readers what to think about**.

- Media sets agenda, tells us what to think about.

- ### Agenda-setting theory

  - McCombs & Shaw (1972)

    - Issues are percieved to be important through mass media
    - Went to North Carolina Chapel Hill reasearch to conduct research. 
      - They asked people What are the most important social issues ? 
      - Mass media analysis 
      - Strong relations between perceived important issues and media items 

    ## Media agenda

    - can be assessd by examining what new items are covered by major mass media
    - On average, korean newspaper covers roughlty 200 articiles per day

    Public agenda:

    - What are the most important social issues of the week ? 

  - Limitation: Public agenda <----> media agenda (and)

## Agenda-setting and cross-legged effects

- Understanding the causal relationship 
- Media-agenda influence public agenda.

## Indicators of media emphasis 

- **Attention** (frequences and length of stories)
- **Placement** (top story, "above the fold")
- **Content cues** (headlines, photos, tone)
- **Number of sources** / Number of outlets 

## Key concepts 

### Media agenda:

- can be assessed by examining what news items are covered by major mass media
- on average, korean newspaper covers roughly 200 articles/day

### Public agenda

- what are the most important issues this week ?

### Gate keeping process 

- to filter information for dissemination ( media decides who can enter and who cannot)

### Contingent conditions 

- **Need for cognition**: Increases media setting through media surveillance
- **issue abstraction**: 
  - more pronounce for abstract issues
  - if everyone can understand the issue --> everyone have an interpretation
  - if, on ther otherhand very complex --> accept media
- **Personal viewpoints** :Increases when consistent with personal orientation
- **Interpersonal discussion** 
  - Reduces media dependence for agenda development
  - typically demenish the agenda. when you discuss with your friends, family, ...

## Drawbacks

* Hard to measure; especially in age of the internet where there are differrent news sources.

## Internet-mediated Agenda rippling

- An issue raised by an individual can become a public issue through the Internet
- individual as a new source of message 
  - they can set agenda
  - example; [Hwang Woo-suk case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hwang_Woo-suk)

## Additional reading

* [Agenda setting theory, Alvernia University](https://online.alvernia.edu/articles/agenda-setting-theory/)
* [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agenda-setting_theory)

