# Framing

Just as agenda sitting theory, framing tells people what they should think about and how they should think about it.

- At the most powerful, frames invite people to **think about an issue in particular ways** (Tewksbyrry & Scheufele, 2009)
- Media may affect the way we view this world.
- When soviet downed a Korean airplane vs. when U.S downed an Iranian airplane.
- Frames are seen as **patterns of interpretation through which people classify information in order to handle it** efficiently (Dietram Scheufele, 2004)
- Frames are ... interpretive packages that give meaning to an issue
- Media determines how the news is presented, and the news makes reality.

## Journalistic tools in framing the news

- Choosing the news **angle**
- Selecting the **sources** : when one chooses a sources, thinks it reflexes the reality of people's opinions.  
- Formulating the **headline** of the story: gives first impressions 
- Summing up the main point of the theory
- Choosing the right **picture**.

## Types of frames

- **Horse race frame**: zero-sum-game.  (Example: Election)
- **Conflict frame**: if two persons have conflict, media pay attention to it. 
- **Episodic vs. thematic** (Iyengar, 1991)
  - **Episodic**: news is reported in terms of a speicific event or a typical case. (standalone)
    - Tragic, emotional articles: foucsing on individual effects.
  - **Thematic**: news is reported within a more general context (part of a longer broader trend)

## Frame-building 

Media choose one frame over others to target a specific group. 

- Internal and external factors to journalism that determine how journalists and news organizations frame issues. 
- **Several frames compete** to set a dominant frame of an issue
- Journalist norms, political actors (political elites, interest groups, ) and cultural context.

## Frame sitting 

How we adapt the frame, focuses on the audience. 

- The interaction between media frames and individual's prior knowledge and predispositions
- **Frames in the news may affect interpretation**, learning and evaluation of issues and events. (Vreese, 2003)

Agenda-setting, priming, and framing

- Scheufele & Tewksbury (2007)

- Priming and agenda-setting vs. Farming

  - **Accessibility** (whether we think about it or not) vs. **Applicability** (how we think about it)
  - Framing effects **go beyond the mere accessibility of issues**.
    Rather **framing effects say that media make a particular frame applicable**.

- **Agenda-setting**: The most accessible issues comes from media

- **Priming**: You recite the stored information from your head to evaluate a particular event.

  ------

  

## Agenda-setting and framing 

  - Salience (give importance) of issue vs. issue attributes 
  - 1st step agenda-setting and 2nd step agenda-setting.
  - 2nd step: focuses on the issues of a certain subject, not only the topic. 

## Further reading

* [Media framing](https://pagecentertraining.psu.edu/public-relations-ethics/media-framing-and-ethics/medias-agenda-setting-role/media-framing/)

