# The third person effect

[The-third-person effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third-person_effect) states that people think media has no effect on them, but on others; overestimate the effect on others, but over-underestimate the effect on oneself.  

## Background

* WW2, Iojima island
  * Japanese used propraganda to target africal american to defect from the U.S army, a white general decided to withdrawl from the island. 
* W. P. Davison (1983)
  * Mass media messages have a greater effect on others than on themselves. 
  * Underestimate the effects of media on me; overestimate the effects on others. 

## Two Dimensions of third-person effects

* Personal component
  * Biased perception on effects of mass media
  * Mass media will have a huge impact on ohters (the third person perception)
* Behavioral component.
  * change in behaviors due to biased perception
  * e.g: Iow Jima island, panic buying.

## Say 'NO' adv: 

* For non smokers:
  * understanding their right to say no to second-hand smoking
* for smokers: 
  * This ad will change perceptions of others (non-smokers)
  * this perception change will lead them to say no to themselves --> reducing their public smoking



### First Person Effect

When a message is socially desirable, the one who got affected by the message is me, rather than others. 



### Why them more than me ? 

* Self-enhancement: we don't associate negative traits with themselves. 
  * when media displays negative content, do not associate
* Attributions: we like to explain things, but commit errors in the process, (e.g event took place on me vs on others), one always tries to justifies himself. 
  * For self: situational attribution 
  * For others: dispositional attribution 
  * when assessing effects of a message on us (vs. on them), people employ different standards. 

Factors that affect third-person effects

* Message topic 
  * Desirable < undesirable (pornography, violence in TV, smoking and gambling advertising, etc.)
  * Perceived source bias: As negative source bias increases, third person effect increases. 
  * Socio-demographics: Grater third person effects among educated or aged.(the more you are educated, aged, you'll be more prone to ttpe)
* 