# Cultivation theory 

Cultivation theory states that: 

> The more time people spend 'living' in the television world, the more likely they are to believe social reality aligns with reality portrayed on television. -[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultivation_theory)



Media content cultivate our perception, the more we are exposed, the more we accept its representation. Worst of all developing a preception of the world as mean, dark place (Mean World Syndrome) after constantly being bombarded with violance sences.   

* Likelihood to be a victim within a week
  * Light TV viewer: 1%
  * Heavy TV viewer: 10%
  * Actual liklihood: 0.01%
* Fear of walking alone at night:
  * F > M
  * Heavy > light (regardless of gender)
* Estimating the percentae of US employed male who works for law enforcement or criminal investation 

## Misrepresentatation of reality

* Television world distorts reality --> violence index 
* 1967 - 1979 projects 
  * A total of 1,491 programs, 4,000 leading actors, 14,205 supporting actors. 
  * 80% of program contained violent senes 
  * Excluding verbal assualt, minor threats and slaptstick in comedy genre
  * The percentage of general violence in TV programs, frequency of violent episodes, the percentage of actors involved in violence. 
  * In reality violent crimes such as murder rape robbery only take 10% but in TV violent crime takes 77% of whole crimes. 
  * Over-represent young energetic appealing characters. 
* **TV misrepresent the world hence the people mispresent the precepion**. 



## Mean world syndrome 

> [Mean world syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mean_world_syndrome) is a cognitive bias where people perceive the world to be more dangerous than it actually is due to long-term, moderate to heavy exposure to violence-related content on mass media, namely television 

* You are more concerned about your safety than you should

* You don't trust people

  

## Mainstreaming

> Mainstreaming is the blurring, blending, and bending process by which heavy TV viewers from disparate groups develop a common outlook on the world through constant exposure to the same images and labels on TV. [...] Heavy television viewing may **override individual differences** and perspectives, creating more of an American (and increasingly global) "melting pot" of social, cultural and political ideologies.

* Commonalities in TV representations
* Converging individuals's viewpoints and perceptions
* Homogenous perception across different social status
* 3B (blurring, blending, and bending)
  * reality delivered through tv is blurring, blending and bending -> views accpet this blurry reality

> Mainstreaming means that heavy viewing may absorb or override differences in perspectives and behavior which ordinarily stem from other factors and influences 

## Resonance

* When things viewed on TV are actually congruent with the actual everyday realities of viewers.
*  The influence of TV is amplified when TV content occurs in reality
* Mass media dynamically interact with real world. 
* A double dose of messages that resonate and amplify cultivation



## Therefore, clutivation occrs ?

* Mass media costruct perception of reality. We percieve world as media represent and depict it
* Ther more we watch TV, the more we accept its distorted and biased representaiton 
* Misrepresnation and misperception.

## Drawbacks

* as with agenda-seetings, [causality problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Causality) 

HOWEVER: 

## Cultivation is not an effect

* Not a one-way, monolithic (single) process 
* Cultivation is continual, dynamic and ongoing process of interaction among messages and contexts
* No need for examining causel direction 
  * we watch tv since we are born, we live with it.

