# Fake news

Seeing is not anymore believing. Deep fake for example.

## Why went viral ?

People often foucs on **popularity** and comments of an article rather than credibility or authenticaty. 

Comfermation bais: we support info that aligns with our values. People don't get news for information but to represent personal opinions through fake news. 

## How truth shall be judged ?

It is extermely hard to crack already accepted misinfromation. People pass the following tests to verify information

### Social Consensus 

Do others believe it ? does it feel fimiliar ? Uncertainty reduction by searching for evidence/exemplar. For example laugh track; when people laugh hard we do it too. Another example is tip jar, people insert conins so you do imitate their behavior. Another example, when you go to a book store, you see the best selling books.

### Coherence

Does the story flow smoothly ?  we better take the information. in constrast to a complex one.

### Credibility

if source is credable may be accepted. 

### Supopring evidence 

information better accepted when presented with a photo. 



## How to correct misinformation

### Fact checking service 

Even when participants know the news they read is fake they accept it, and may defend who shared it. this is why it is hard to combact fake news.

### Media literacy  

The purpose of media literacy is to give us more control over interpertations and use of media. To build our own interpretations against interpretations from mass media, entertainement, storytellers, advertisers, etc. 

The effects of media on individual society 
How a message is framed and disseminated
How to ehnahce media literacy (checklist):

- media messgages are constructed with intentions
  - title, caption, layout, picture, word choice, etc. 
- Who created the message and why ?
- Messages are subjectivly intrepreted. Do not rely on one sided intrepreation

Counter arguement: people who are aquanited with critical tools may apply it on the other baised side. 