# Homework #1 

------



Due: October 3rd, 2019. 

## **[Problem1]** 

Consider a highway that has a tollbooth every 100 kilometers, as shown below. You can think of the highway segments between tollbooths as links and the tollbooths as routers. Suppose that cars travel (that is, propagate) on the highway at a rate of 50 km/hour (that is, when a car leaves a tollbooth, it instantaneously accelerates to 50 km/hour and maintains that speed between tollbooths). Suppose next that 20 cars, traveling together as a caravan, follow each other in a fixed order. You can think of each car as a bit and the caravan as a packet. Also suppose that each tollbooth services (that is, transmits) a car at a rate of one car per 15 seconds, and that it is late at night so that the caravan’s cars are the only cars on the highway. Finally, suppose that whenever the first car of the caravan arrives at a tollbooth, it waits at the entrance until the other nineteen cars have arrived and lined up behind it. (Thus the entire caravan must be stored at the tollbooth before it can begin to be forwarded.)

**A**. Suppose the caravan travels 300km, beginning in front of one tollbooth, passing through a second and third tollbooth, and finishing just after a fourthtollbooth. What is the end-to-end delay?

**B**. Repeat (a), now assuming that there are sixteencars in the caravan instead of twenty

### **[Solution1]**: 

#### **A**

- The transmission rate at a tollbooth is  $R={1\:car}/{15s}$, hence the transmission delay in a one tollbooth is $d_{trans} = 20\:car \cdot \frac{15 s}{1car} = 300s$, and since there are 3 tollbooths along the way, total transmission delay is $300 \cdot 3 = 900s \implies 15 \:min$.
- The cars propagate $300km$ at speed of $50km/1hr$ , hence the propagation delay is $d_{prop}=300km\cdot\frac{1hr}{50km}=6\:hrs$
- Therefore, $d_{end-to-end}=d_{trans} + d_{prop} = 6\;hours : 15\:minutes$ 

#### **B**

- The transmission rate at a tollbooth is  $R={1\:car}/{15s}$, hence the transmission delay in a one tollbooth is $d_{trans} = 16\:car \cdot \frac{15 s}{1car} =240s$, and since there are 3 tollbooths along the way, total transmission delay is $240s \cdot 3 = 12 \:min$.
- The car propagation delay didn't change since the speed is still the same, hence it is still  $d_{prop}=6\:hrs$
- Therefore, $d_{end-to-end}=d_{trans} + d_{prop} = 6\;hours : 12\:minutes$

## [Problem2]

Consider two hosts, A and B, connected by a single link of rate R bps. Suppose that the two hosts are separated by m meters, and suppose the propagation speed along the link is s meters/sec. Host A is to send a packet ofsize L bits to Host B

A.Express the propagation delay, dprop, in terms of m and s
B.Determine the transmission time of the packet, dtrans, in terms of L and R
C.Ignoring processing and queuing delays, obtain an expression for the end-to-end delay
D.Suppose Host A begins to transmit the packet at time t = 0. At time t = dtrans, where is the last bit of the packet?
E.Suppose dprop, is greater than dtrans. At time t = dtrans, where is the first bit of the packet?
F.Suppose dpropis less than dtrans. At time t = dtrans, where is the first bit of the packet?
G.Suppose s = 2×108, L = 150bits, and R = 60kbps. Find the distance m so that dpropequals dtrans

### **[Solution2]**

$$
A.\,\:d_{prop}=m\:meter \times \frac{1\:sec}{s\:meter} = {m}/{s} \: sec
$$

$$
B.\,\:d_{trans}=L\:bit \times \frac{1\:sec}{R\:bit} = {L}/{R} \: sec
$$

$$
C.\,\:d_{end-to-end}= d_{prop} + d_{trans} \: sec
$$

$$
\text{D.} \,\: \text{Have just been pushed by A to the link.}
$$

$$
\text{E. Traversing (propegating) in the link}
$$

$$
\text{F. Have reached the destenation B}
$$

$$
\frac{m}{s} = \frac{L}{R} \\\frac{m\:meter}{2\times10^8 \:mps} = \frac{150\:bit}{6\times10^4\:bps} \Leftrightarrow m = \frac{2\times10^8\times150}{6\times10^4} = 500 km
$$

## [Problem3] 

Suppose users share a 6 Mbps link. Also suppose each user requires 200 kbps when transmitting, but each user transmits only 5 percent of the time.

A.When circuit switching is used, how many users can be supported?

B.Suppose there are 100 users. Find the probability that at any given time, exactly n users are transmitting simultaneously. (Hint: Use the binomial distribution.)

### Solution3

**A**. Since each user should be allocated with $200kbps$ and the link is limited with $6Mbps$ the maximum number of possible users is:
$$
\frac{6\times10^6 bps}{200 \times 10^3bps/user} = 30 \:user
$$
**B**. We want to know where $n$ users out of $100$  are using the link at the same time, each user has probability of $0.05$ of transmitting (success) and 0.95 of not transmitting (failure), this is a binomial distribution problem given by: 
$$
{}_{100}C_{n} = (0.05)^n \cdot (0.95)^{100-n}
$$


## **[Problem4]** 

In  modern  packet-switched  networks,  including  the  Internet,  the  source  host segments long, application-layer messages (for example, an image or a musicfile) into smaller packets and sends the packets into the network. The receiverthen reassembles the packets back into  the  original  message.  We  refer  to  thisprocess  as  message  segmentation.  Below  image illustrates  the  end-to-endtransport  of  a  message  with  and  without  message  segmentation. Consider amessage that is 12×106bits long that is to be sent from source to destination inbelow  image.  Suppose  each  link  in  the  figure  is  2  Mbps.  Ignore  propagation,queuing,  and processing delays.

A. Consider sending the message from source to destination without message segmentation. How  long does  it  take  to  move  the  message  from  the  source  host  to  the  first  packet switch? Keeping in mind that each switch uses store-and-forward packet switching, what is the total time to move the message from source host to destination host?

B.Now suppose that themessage is segmented into 3000packets, with each packet being 4,000 bits long. How long does it take to move the first packet from source host to the first switch? When the first packet is being sent from the first switch to the second switch, the second packet is being sent from the source host to the first switch. At what time will the second packet be fully received at the first switch?

C.How  long  does  it  take  to  move  the  file  from  source  host  to  destination  host  when message  segmentation  is  used?  Compare  this  result  with  your  answer  in  part  (A)  and comment.

### Solution4

A. Time required to reach the first switch: $\frac{12\:\text{MB}}{2\:\text{Mbps}} = 6s$, since we have 3 links with the same speed the total time is $3 \times 6s = 18s$

B. Time required to reach the first switch $\frac{4000\:\text{bit}}{2\times10^6\:\text{bps}} = 0.002s$, the second packet would be fully received after packet 1 is fully received by switch #2, that is after $0.004s$. 

C. Because the transmission is consecutive, each packet takes $0.002s$, Additionally It will take the first packet $0.002s$ to reach the first router, and $0.002s$ for the last packet to reach  the destination hence the whole message would take $(3000\times 0.002) + 0.002 + 0.002 = 6.004s$ to reach the destination.    



## **[Problem5]** 

The text below shows the reply sent from the server in response to the HTTP GET message in the question above. Answer the following questions, indicating where in the message below you find the answer

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK<cr><lf>Date: Tue, 07 Mar 200812:39:45GMT<cr><lf>Server: Apache/2.0.52 (Fedora)<cr><lf>Last-Modified: Sat, 10 Dec2005 18:27:46GMT<cr><lf>ETag: “526c3-f22-a88a4c80”<cr><lf>Accept-Ranges: bytes<cr><lf>Content-Length:3874<cr><lf>Keep-Alive: timeout=max=100<cr><lf>Connection:Keep-Alive<cr><lf>Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1<cr><lf><cr><lf><!doctype html public “-//w3c//dtd html 4.0 transitional//en”><lf><html><lf><head><lf> <meta http-equiv=”Content-Type”content=”text/html; charset=iso-8859-1”><lf> <metaname=”GENERATOR”content=”Mozilla/4.79 [en] (Windows NT5.0; U) Netscape]”><lf> <title>CMPSCI 453 / 591 /NTU-ST550A Spring 2005 homepage</title><lf></head><lf><much more document text following here (not shown)>
```

A.Was  the  server  able  to  successfully  find  the  document  or  not?  What  time  was  the document reply provided?
B.When was the document last modified?
C.How many bytes are there in the document being returned?
D.What are the first 5 bytes of the document being returned? Did the server agree to a persistent connection?

### Solution5

A. Yes, since the server returned a  status of `200 OK`. The time was on 07 March 2008 at 12:39:45 GMT

B. According to `Last-Modified` header it was on 10 Dec 2005 18:27:46 GMT

C. According to `Content-Length` header there are 3874 bytes

D. `!<doc`, Yes it did according to the `Keep-Alive` header. 


